Yeah! Make some noise! It's so good to see you! Lovely dynasty typewriter theater in downtown
Los Angeles. How do you feel tonight? You look so much better than that. Please welcome
to the stage Spencer Crittenden! He brought that backpack for you. He got a backpack full
of emotion for you. Oh damn. Hopefully laughter's not an emotion. Not when you hyphenated like that.
Are you all ready for your headliner here at Shuckle Fuck? Yeah! Please welcome to the stage the mayor of Harmontown.
He gets down! Dan Harmon! Thank you. Thank you very much. We have so much to do. So much to do. I did want to, I was listening to the Pete Holmes episode from last week and I, there was so many things. I was like, first of all, Dan, you drink too much and you interrupt too much. You should let, like, like, fun people that have lots to say talk or like, I hate listening to myself interrupt people.
But Pete Holmes said so many, there were so many interesting, like, little touch points, like little things he said. Gems! Hate is a lack of imagination. It has stuck with me for a week. There were a couple other ones. Now I'm too drunk to remember.
But really fun episode, so glad Pete came out. Let's all hope he has something to plug again so he comes by. But I have a new friend for you guys to meet that I'm deeply excited about, which could be bad or good, I don't know.
But I got, here's the thing, like, this is the last episode before 2019, I believe. What? No! Really? Because next Monday it'll be, fuck you, I'm in Tahiti, I'm a cliche.
You should podcast from there.
Yeah, I will minecraft from there and maybe I'll try to see if a Twitch signal can go through the swordfish or whatever they have for internet.
There's a handful of things. One thing is that I've started watching the Tim Allen Santa Claus trilogy and there's just so much to talk about with that. But I think I'm going to wait. Well, my new friend who's work, I have been binging, who's going to come out.
He's a writer-director. So that, unlike this one other thing, is something I can talk about with him. So that means I'm leading with the following.
But I'm going to try to give you the reader's digest version.
Okay.
It gets tragic, it gets touching. Dave, are you cool with this? Are you still cool with this?
Yeah.
Dave said you. I guess I kind of tip something by referring to Dave in the front row. So wipe your brain of that because...
It's going to ruin the dramatic tension.
Yeah. So for the second time in a month, because the front gate on my lavish three-bedroom property in Las Feliz is... I don't know if it looks like an apartment building's gate or if the Proud Boys are having meetings in Las Feliz now and they're just getting enough Dutch courage to wander to my place, but then they're so drunk they forgot why they're there.
But there's this new tradition mounting where my doorbell all ring and then I'll turn on the security camera and I'll see the creepiest thing you could ever see, which is a dude who has no idea where he is just trying to punch fucking codes on a keypad.
This is the second one and I think it was 1.30 in the morning doorbell. You wake up from a dead sleep doorbell ringing. Unless you're 24 years old, there's no way 1.30 a.m. doorbell is going to lead to...
I'm trying to think back. I'm like, maybe that's Andy Dick. Like when I was in the mood, like, hey, works in weird ways. Let's fucking rock and roll.
Or like, hey, that's the Lonely Island guys. They came over to open a laptop and show me dick in a box before they upload it to the thing. Hey, 1.30 in the morning is a magical time if you're young. I am 45 years old. I live in a fucking house at the top of a hill.
I have a gun that I barely know how to load. I have a girlfriend that I don't want to watch die and just the doorbell rings and it's interrupting my dreams about Minecraft and I'm like, who could that possibly be?
Turn on the cameras and it's like slowly comes up. Everything looks creepy in night vision and there's just no way to look comforting when you are standing on someone's porch in night vision camera mode. Can we... I will show the people...
We heard there was a clip.
Yeah, so if you're listening...
The craziest thing about that is that it says front door in the corner. So this guy...
That was like... He stood there and did that for 40 minutes.
So he's punching in codes?
Some of the time he was... We were trying to figure out if he was A, punching codes, B, masturbating because all you could see is like his arm going like this.
Cody and I are just standing there going, I think he's trying codes and I'm like, why would he try codes? Where does he think he is? What rave does he think is starting without him?
He rang the doorbell, the dogs are barking, nothing's happening and he's just like, what are you on that makes you think like...
He's like, come on, there's nine numbers. How long could it take?
He was jamming on it for so long that I was like, Cody and I had the conversation. I'm like, I loaded my Glock.
A Glock 19?
I don't know if it's a 19.
I think I don't know what it is.
I'll tell you what it is. It's a fucking load.
I'm getting a revolver. That's it. I'm getting a revolver because... Have you ever put a bullet in a clip?
That's none of your goddamn business.
It's fucking hard.
Oh, sorry Brandon, sorry.
Brandon, come back.
I mean, I might have spit on a couple of bullets to make the seal tighter.
You should have called me.
I was just like, these springs are strong.
Why do you think my thumb has this much muscle in it?
I bought a device that's designed to compensate for weakness.
Why would you make it so hard to load?
Why is the bullet a fucking bench press?
If I could bench press, I would go down there and karate chop this guy.
But we really thought about it.
You had said before, when you touch a gun, they do studies.
They hook a person up to the things. They monitor their endocrines.
When you touch a gun, your testosterone spikes.
Spikes real, real hard.
And I would be lying if I said there wasn't a strange, weird background program in my head.
I don't want to say, I hope something happens.
No, that's what testosterone is doing.
But somehow in the background, in the far background, not in a way that's real,
but there was a noticeable, I was like, well, I'll tell you,
the big headline was that I'm still not over.
I'll still stick to this. I'm sorry if this hits a political button.
And I understand that we live in very, very painful times.
I don't want to hurt you by saying this, trigger arguments with your loved one.
If you're listening, I'm going to subjectively use my eye statements
and tell you how I felt and how I still feel.
It made me feel very happy that I bought a gun.
Because it was 40 minutes at the, it was like rang the doorbell
and we're looking at him and we're going, shit, it's another one.
He's drunk, he's drunk.
But he was like doing shit and it was like, he was tapping.
There was a tapping on the front door and it was like, is that as key?
Is he, that's his key. He's just tapping his house key.
It's like, what if it's a fucking Wolverine blade?
Like, what if he's carving an eye?
What if he's carving a perfect, perfect eye?
Look at this motherfucker trying to find a reason to shoot.
That's what testosterone does.
But we, but we had to count.
When we were like, okay, the cops aren't coming.
Because what Cody called the non-emergency, we didn't want to call 911.
Like, we called the, we called the police, like you call special pickup.
Like, there's a poor person on my porch.
You know, it was like, like, it's not an emergency.
You know, like that kind of like guilt about and then that turns into outrage
when they don't show up right away.
Where the fuck are you?
But Cody called the non-9-1-1 police number.
3-1-1.
Los Feliz, they show up so fast.
So we were like, it was like, we felt like, if anything, like, feel bad for this person.
Like, but also he's terrifying us.
And like, is he going to, like, when you're drunk and like that frat blackout drunk,
like, we've all heard stories from friends, even some of us may have these stories in our life.
It's like, yeah, and then I went back and I ended up, I had this dream where I was taking a shit
and then I was in a sink at a pizza hut and I had shattered the window.
You know, it's like, you blackout, like, what if he, what if he goes from,
what if he goes from harmless mode to like a black bear at a camping site?
Like, like, like there's marshmallows in your glove box mode.
Like, it's still, he doesn't know what he's doing.
Yeah, it's scary.
And so what if he starts taking the door because he's so whatever he thinks the house is,
is like, he feels like he should be inside and not outside.
Right.
And so Cody and are like, okay, so what do we do?
And, you know, I don't know if this is something you're allowed to pat yourself in the back for,
but I was like, we will call the dogs into the bedroom, close the bedroom door.
He can do whatever he wants to the house.
We'll continue to wait for the police.
And if he comes in the bedroom, then I'll shoot him.
What the fuck are you waiting for?
If he makes a sandwich, if this guy sits down, makes a sandwich.
I'm ready to kill this dude to like, if he starts to binge watch too much cable.
He can't delete any of my same resources.
If he uses my resources, I'm gonna be pissed off.
But this is the privilege that comes with security cameras and all this shit.
Like everything's very much in control.
And I want to note that too, like, because we were talking about this other thing where it's like,
I don't know, just that panic where the cops eventually came.
And that second where it looked, I was watching them on the camera that I also have installed,
where I can see the cops showing up.
And when they didn't do exactly what I, I was like,
Cody and I are like, fuck no, fuck you.
Like it was sort of like, god damn, you can imagine like this is an example of chaos happening
and everything's under control.
And like it's the safest version of this you could get.
And still, like the closeness that I felt with violence,
it wasn't like, oh, the last thing on my mind is whether or not to shoot someone.
It was like, I bought the fucking gun, like I bought a power drill.
You never know, you need to put up a shelf, knock a guy down, put holes in him, kill him forever, ruin your life.
Yeah, I bought, that's what I bought it for.
Look, time to load it up.
They'll tell you what, if it comes in, they'll shoot him up.
It's just kind of like, we are fucking culture is insane.
It's like, it's like Chekhov's gun.
Like you're introducing the gun.
So like you're not just doing all right right the first act and the gun right but like literally.
I mean it's weird, but like literally in your life, you're not doing it.
It's like and then it'll never come into play like buying a gun is kind of like making a making a choice.
That's like, I might, I might choose to shoot to someone in a way that's not on the table before you buy a gun.
You know, so like at that point, I think you're thinking, I mean, this is not like, like an indictment or anything,
but I think that once you own a gun or have access to a gun, I think, you know, you might think differently
because a gun is an option available to you.
And so it's just like, that's just something I don't know that that seems like something that we should at least talk about.
I mean, you are, but yeah, yeah, no, I'm trying to be interesting concept.
I want to be honest. I had that same thought. Thank you so much.
You're right. I because I'm saying I'm being honest using my eye statements.
I'm trying to also be accountable by saying this is not my political opinion.
This is not even my personal philosophy opinion as a cowardly person.
I bought that gun because I got scared about the world falling apart.
I bought that gun as like a donation to a religion that professes that we're all going to kill each other.
And I paid, I put money in the collector's dish for that church that uses that money to build itself and preach more.
I fell for it. I put money into it. I got my thing.
And what I'm what I'm what I'm confessing is that, oh, it works.
Any random thing that happens, you're happy you bought the black and decker people shooter.
Yeah.
Like the way you're happy you got the dust buster because oh, I dropped a glass.
There's shit everywhere. Yeah, but I bought this thing and thank God it is that that and that is the problem.
Right.
It is pretty simple because it's like, yeah, that that shouldn't be how we're thinking about human life.
Or at least they should then have extra steps involved to kind of make it harder because that that's a problem that needs to be talked about,
addressed, thought about, researched.
Yeah, I don't know, man, but we called them and the cops eventually show up.
Right.
This is a good story.
If you have a problem, it's like, holy shit, I love the police. These like wonderful like people, they come up with the flashlight.
They're like the people caught.
They could see you.
You could see I'm like calling in.
They're like they're like they're like shining the flashlight and they're not seeing the guy.
I know.
And then they're like, what the fuck did you do?
Look, I mean, there's shit in the news right now.
That's all about this.
Like I believe.
Yeah, I mean, I had to call the police once in a while.
That's how I mean, that's how scared I was of this white person.
But I was like, I will take my chances.
I don't want to say like, oh, I'm well aware of how privileged it is.
But I mean, because I'm not aware of the ceiling of it, but I'm like the whole time I'm thinking like, Jesus Christ, this is such a fucking luxury.
It is though to be able to call people and like, like, like watch them come up to pray for the police to show up and to be so relieved when they do and they have them come up.
And they and they and the fact was like, we'll talk about like, what if the guy was black on my porch?
What if I'm white and the cops are white or whatever they are?
It doesn't really matter.
The cops are cops are their own race sort of in how they view things.
Like that's not meant as a diss.
Like I'm saying like cops have that protective culture that like, what if the guy on my porch was black that was ringing my doorbell?
How would that affect when I called the police and what I was hoping would happen?
You know, like, like, what, what, how afraid would I be like, okay, what if this, what if this goes pear shaped?
Like, like, like, and I was thinking none of that.
And it's partly because of the white privilege of the homeless guy on my porch.
He had privilege.
Yeah.
Because I was like, cops get over here fast as you can.
Like fucking run up the steps and like, if you see a weirdo, grab them and hoist them out of here, not fearing about any kind of like, yeah, fucking like thing.
Like in a world where we read Facebook stories about a black social worker calls the or is helping an autistic person and he gets shot.
I was like, like all this shit that we defend.
So yeah, anyways, whatever.
Well, I don't even know why I'm bringing that up because it's like, thanks, Dan, for pointing out the whatever.
Here's, here's, here's the point of my story.
Yeah, that's a true.
That's a true thing for all people.
Right.
You will.
There are times a week called the cops and we're all very happy to see them there.
It really are.
I just had to make the joke.
But really, the truth is, even even myself, obviously, it's a class thing that a race thing like if you live in Bel Air and you're a fresh prince, you.
I think it's a crime thing.
If you if you're a black person and you're calling for a misdemeanor, then everybody's cool.
Right.
If it's a murder.
And there's that camaraderie, like it's raining and you're like, oh, it's raining.
Like when the, when the drunk guy hit my garage, it was just like a million cops outside my place.
Yeah.
Everyone's joking about my segue.
Right.
Like, and it was just sort of like, I love cops.
It was just sort of like high school, like, like, but if you were drunk, getting bounced out of a bar and because it was like, you had an argument with like, maybe the bartender said some shit that you right or wrong thought was like,
two right wing for you to drink at his bar.
And like, you knew all those in the cops were like that you the your encounter with a cop can make the difference between you.
You could spend a life in prison.
I know that sounds hyperbolic.
But like the that can escalate.
I guess I because I saw a documentary on Netflix about it.
Like, even if you like there was a thing like they purposely did two stories, one guy as a black guy, one guy as a white guy, the white guy that came home, found his mom stabbed to death and like because he was like freaking out and the cops were kind of like acting weird about his mom being stabbed to death.
He ended up a prime suspect and hauled into jail.
And like the story just cascades from there where it's like he ends up in prison for like his whole fucking life because anyways, whatever.
Like, come on, Harmon, get off of this.
There's an important part of the story.
It's a good story.
So I sent this video of a guy on my porch.
Thank you.
To Dave Kline.
Now, if you know what Dave Kline looks like, my personal trainer, he's got long blonde hair.
So the video I just showed was of a guy that's got long blonde hair.
He's got some leaves in it and he's in a jacket and he's like swaying back and forth on my porch.
So I sent Dave Kline the next day.
I sent him a text sent the 11 second video of the guy.
And I said, Hey, don't come over here at 1 30 a.m. again.
I almost shot you through the door.
That's a good joke.
Yeah, that's great.
It's a great joke.
Everybody loves being told they like this guy looks like you Dave's response.
And I went into like, like, like, like I asked Dave if I could tell the story.
So like, I think you probably would have realized he's a hero.
He'll be on his first place, but like really think about the fact that I said Dave can please tell this story.
And he's like, Yeah, you can Dave responded with Dan, I apologize.
This video is sobering and a major wake up call for me.
I'm going to get some professional help for my drinking.
Thank you for bringing this to my attention and also for not shooting me.
And I looked at that and I was like, that's kind of a tonal departure from the Upe guy.
Like he's usually not that dry.
He's definitely has a high IQ.
So he's capable of doing dry comedy.
He just doesn't usually choose to.
And but I just but I didn't bother.
I didn't want to insult him by going, you know, it's a bit writer.
I don't know. I just didn't. That's like fucking hilarious comeback man.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I also didn't want to weaken myself by going like oh well.
I'm like fuck you like hey if you're going to be that funny.
Welcome to the big leagues where you play to the silence.
I mean I'll admire you when you're dead bitch.
That's that's the comedy rule man.
I'll fucking pour a 40 on your casket and be like I never fucking laughed at you bro.
You were so funny.
That's too busy tagging my own bits to listen to your bag.
So two days after that Dave rings the doorbell to do our workout and it's
completely shaving ball.
I see his face and I go hey man and I was about to I think I started to do a call
back to the job.
I was like hey man because I couldn't wait to talk to him about my funny bit and
it was a good joke.
Hey man.
Don't like again just to remind you don't and he's like Dan.
I'm so sorry.
So sorry.
And as soon as I saw his face I was like whoa.
No, it wasn't you and he's like what?
And I said I said did you wake up in jail?
No.
It wasn't you then.
And he's like oh my god.
Oh my god.
I enrolled in rehab.
He's fine.
You're fine.
Because he drank that night he drank 12 beers.
You're doing fine.
And took an ambient.
So he woke up in his own bed.
He didn't know what happened.
He was like hey I don't know that that's not me.
So he had a good faith rock bottom.
I gave him the gift I guess.
I still can't figure out if I did him a favor.
I don't know how to process that.
Yeah.
Thanks to you he ascended from rock bottom which you also
inflicted.
It seems really unfair that he called Kaiser Permanente and said I'm coming in.
And yet if you have a map of the universe in your head where it's possible you did
show up when you look at a video he said I called my dad.
So please respect fucking Dave Kline's self aware question mark.
If a question mark can be a mobius strip so self aware that you allow for fucking the
fucking the uncertainty which I didn't mean to exploit.
Obviously I never want to fool anybody but that I thought it was just a me.
I've never experienced that where I'm like no no no it wasn't you.
It wasn't you and I kept looking like that I started thinking by the way Dave while
we were working out like I was doing tummy crunches and I was like I kept.
I had to keep going.
I was like is wasn't him.
No you can see the video is the beard.
The bearded man.
Look at that's a pissy beard.
That Dave has a much nicer beard and it's not but I was just it was just because of
your reaction.
I was like my cynicism.
I was like well wait a minute.
What is I started doing because well just because it was like you should be saying
well I don't you should be going on.
I don't have that jacket but Dave said right.
That you have that jacket.
It's hanging in my closet.
Oh it's it's camouflaged but it could be leather as it's sort of like he just he's
just doing all the necessary.
He's trying to be a good person by eating the world halfway and actually in a world
where people will convince themselves they didn't murder someone that they murdered.
We have true crime podcasts and 10 year jury trials about where people are just like yeah
they passed a polygraph test.
Yeah because they don't want to be a murderer but they are.
In that in that world Dave Kline the Jesus Christ of alcoholism is like yeah.
Hey you did a bit where I did like I say I'll fucking shit fuck it go in a rehab.
Well because because of the weird possibility.
Yeah well you know what first thought best thought you you should you should offer a
service where you write people's rock bottoms when they black out and you can come back
to them be like yeah man you you fucked a watermelon and you shit at a bar mitzvah.
I will say that that dude you have a full head of hair where this dude was like sort
of going bald rocking three dreads so that might have been out there.
I went outside and looked at it.
I had to just get verification from Cody because of my face blindness after we worked
out I did go upstairs and I go I woke up Cody and said Cody just double come for him.
It wasn't Dave kind right just like no right.
Also what what happened.
What was the end result.
They they they by the time they came up there he had disappeared from the camera.
I think he was probably just seated stoop like in the doorway so they couldn't see him right away.
They came up and so you watch the cops like come up.
It's like I just can't believe like feeling the fear to open your own door and then calling
people whose job it is to like just rant.
It's not even their house and they have.
I mean I know that sounds so stupid to say but it's like where you're like oh I hope
these guys that I like inherently mistrust because they're about not having fun when
I'm skateboarding in my Pringles commercial of my life and it's just like so easy to
like like and it's just you're just like in those random moments are just like I hope
I see a fucking guy I go the fucking big belt full of shit and fucking I hope is walkie
squawking and and that they're just like they're trained to just like they didn't freak out.
I was like why aren't you freaking out Charles Manson is on my porch.
You should be so freaked out but they're like what if that freaked us out like what would
we they came up and they they that one guy hung back and you know did the thing and then
the other guy was like came up and like stood him up and like they cuffed him right away.
I think it was more about like we got to get this guy off the property.
I don't know what the rules are but they they took him down into the street where you could
see that they I think they did like probably as a formality like a kind of sobriety test
and probably took him through in the drunk tank but they they just kind of yeah they
like squirted him out and then knocked on the door as they were still like we went down
and like hey how are you and our little pajamas and they're like hey do you know this guy
and you recognize him like nope nope looks a lot like Dave Kline but right I think Dave
who Dave Kline it's not spelled the Jewish way he's like a Viking okay Dave Kline I
said K L I N E like I really don't know a lot about him you should know I'm kidding anyways
but it was it was it was like thank you guys thank you and that was it like and we'll never
find out like what was that guy where was he what was he on how did he I want to know
those stories not out of like justice I want to know them I want to know who were you as
a second guy the first guy was like this weird like dude was like kept checking his phone
and trying the code was like he looked like he had been invited to some party that someone
had told him a code he was a little more conscious and and then he's eventually stumbled down
the stairs and got into a white minivan and drove away like oh that's okay I wonder if
you can find out what happens to him by checking the arrest record because you didn't press
charges right so what would I look at the date of the incident that's like all public
information it's like an old tiny like medieval town you can just be like oh man Simmons found
a cat in the well yeah the daily blotter you want to do an incident report and then if you
did an incident report they'll tell you what the situation maybe you can foster this guy
okay well so I I wasted a lot of time on that didn't waste it it was fantastic I grew a
lot of time over there with that if you see if you see if you see Dave Kline give him
a lot of love and buy him a drink because that's a that's a rare personality that can take
that and then like and then not say please don't talk about that in the show like I
thought that I mean that's very giving and wonderful but let's let's let's make a new
friend I just finished binge watching the second season of the show I've talked about
it before either the first season was so amazing and like it's it's an Amazon show so like
I you got you got a signal boost or if people don't see it so I just we'll talk about his
career and talk about the show I hope it's not an alienating conversation if you haven't
seen the show I would recommend you watch and I think it's really really interesting
so grateful for him being willing to come here and talk about it the creator writer
director of Patriot please welcome Steven Conrad
sorry if I made you wait a little a little too long there I'm sure it's a little
it was the second time I heard the story I was kind of like well okay here's the thing
I got to talk about this and I gave him a little brief version of it yeah so thanks
for making Patriot I just finished watching the second season yeah thank you for paying
attention and I bring the gratitude of our entire cast and our team of filmmakers who
appreciate any attention we have to go a long way from home to work on the show and where
is that exactly we shot in Paris which was not that wasn't tough but being away from
your loved ones for that long and coming home and the show comes out and people don't even
notice that it's come out that part can be a little hard for it's the dark belly of the
golden age of television anyway all I mean to say is thank you oh no problem I really
am so interested to talk to you about it because I the first season it was a rare event for
me because if I start watching something with my girlfriend and she falls asleep or
you know like I don't like I really remember specifically like I chewed another half an
Adderall so I could stay up and keep watching the rest of your first season because I was
just really drawn in by the kind of like serialized story of this like weird world it's a spy
drama that centers around it's in the near past around the idea of preventing Iran from
going nuclear I guess my first question is how ironic was that as a concept because recently
like I mean I was like was it intentionally futile yes yes and when we started to make
the show it was especially futile because that the progression toward becoming a nuclear
power was headed off through diplomacy right and then it's all newly up in the air but
in 2016 it was a settled matter our story takes place in 2012 where it isn't there are
great costs to trying to turn the tide of this election through extra legal means but
we are in the past and looming in the future is the this notion that this problem was fixed
but the people the viewers are being told well this is happening before are we I don't
want to use the word supposed to because you're an artist so you'll probably say you should
feel however you want but I kind of like I'm going to ask anyway do you want me to feel
like all of this is for nothing or did you want me to understand that the stakes are
high for people like this the protagonist and his father well I didn't want just you
to feel anything but that's the way it turned out but that that's precisely the feeling
that we were hoping to which one of the this idea that there is futility from the onset
but the stakes are high for them and that they're believably high for them what the
fucking yeah I hope Steve's okay but but the stakes for us reduced to the stakes for
like a dog day afternoon which is just to survive right the event of the mistake I mean
it's like I so the way that I can introduce to the show was the strangest thing I was
at a I was at a meeting and we were talking about just different shit just random shit
and somebody who I later forgot who it was it was a person that said have you guys seen
this show Patriot and I had seen like ads at the airport there were there was like
like the Michael Dorman like like looking at a through an interactive billboard or
was I what's this Patriot shit who knows but did you returned off by the advertising
no I didn't I was like I don't know someone else I got a TV show I hope I'm better than
them I don't yeah like you see you see an ad for a TV show I'm like how come NBC never
did that for me or what I do just I just have narcissistic feelings but like I like I like
I like the guy looked charming I had no idea it was Australian we talk about that later
that guy's so good yes but but then but then it's usually you just get what you see this
advertising oh there's a show out there it's called Patriot who knows what the fuck that
means and then someone in a meeting that I was with said have you guys seen the show Patriot
and what they said that made me bother to watch it was something that it doesn't even sound
on paper like it shouldn't make me want to watch it which is basically like it's like
it's kind of like an Ian Fleming novel if Wes Anderson directed it which that might be
incredibly offensive to you I mean it involves other creatives and it's like defined but
it made me go what and so I watched the pilot and then it was just sucked in I was sucked
in by the cynicism I was sucked in by the but the there are there the themes that you
seem to I don't want to dissect you and diagnose you I want you to talk about what motivates
you good luck if you've listened to an episode of this show you know I'm a bad interviewer
like your thing with fathers and sons your thing with nature versus nurture your thing
with sociopathy these are the things that drew me in like the first episode of that show
what you're establishing is that there's this fucking strapping really lovably hunky dude
in a ratty sweater who is smoking weed in Amsterdam and you're getting through backstory
that he's a CIA probably black bag wet operator someone who's good at killing people and that
his father works at the CIA and that he's been kind of like hanging out in Amsterdam smoking
weed and writing songs about how he kills people for the CIA and performing them in open
mic clubs and there's just so many amazing choices that the show makes in those first
moments where it's like oh the CIA isn't going we have to stop him from singing those songs
they don't care he's like that's he's just singing songs and by the way and you will
talk about it later but you these are all your songs you're a musician you write you
write and record these songs and stuff but like he sings these songs about what he's
doing like his mission is like like oh I gotta gotta kill a guy in a turbine and I don't know
if he's good or bad and I don't know but the guy is like he's he's he's good at killing
people which is a sociopath's job but he's he either is or isn't a sociopath yeah it
is it's all that stuff damn for sure spread out but this man is like a professional
Dan Handler very insightful dad however right Dan a lot of things come chocolate but this
is a brownie all of that is the case with the story but all of it exists only to allow
our guy to start tackling this task in a way that I hope would be more familiar to an audience
as it regards their own lives there are so many mornings I wake up and I'm just not
prepared for whatever it is that I have to do that day like a even like a parent teacher
conference I'm not prepared buying shoes I'm not prepared I I always feel like I'm a lack
some attachment to to preparing and then finishing well anything that's in front of me
because my mind's always somewhere else and I know that that's true of most people and
I thought it wouldn't be any different for a person in this walk of life the job then
was just to fill his head with some ideas and some energy that would make him someone
worth spending time with and the sociopath he it's because he was raised by a person
who made him sort of super American and that he imposed on him values that you really have
to be taught when you're little because you you throw them off when you're older when you
reach the age of reason like you patriotism is a thing that you learn in the Boy Scouts
you just ought to be into but then when you get older and you look around and you think
well all that means is that I'm obligated to strangers who probably don't have my best
at heart and your dad because he's a welder or or a bus driver by the time you get to
adolescence and are going to shrug off and realize that it's bullshit you probably also
already seen your dad yeah the price for it too unless your dad works for the CIA in
which case there's no reason for him to part from that company line that I I'm so glad
like like like but but okay okay well maybe this is a total derailment but now okay talk
about your dad talk about you and you're like is this how autobiographical is this or how
yeah I had a highly charismatic father who was always the smartest person in the room
and it didn't matter if there were two people in the room or 200 people in the room he always
dominated the flow of events and he was always the bottom line there's an intimidating person
to share dinner with but I had this inherent trust for any direction he gave me I would
feel like this must make sense because my dad asked me to do it and then the older I got
you right just the he turned back to man size he turned back to to human over time as you
became an adult you yeah like you you you saw him maybe up against shit and then our
politics were different and right at some point it's hard he liked he liked him he liked
he didn't like 27 dresses and you're like actually that's really good he loved gremlins
too he's like I can't believe how meta it was and you're like come on it was a little
kind of ate itself a little bit when are we gonna talk about Tim Allen Santa Claus I
don't know yeah later this is to I can't I'm like I'm really I'm really like fanning out
by the way I really have a lot of respect watching you thank you like 20 episodes of
I'm so up for it I appreciate it so much so and it's amazing that what I'm hearing is
like I really cynically thought I was not going to hear what I'm hearing because honestly
one of the least accessible things about this character is his weird compulsion to please
his father I really don't like I feel safe on my father and I have to run like what ifs
in my head of like if my dad was the kind of dad that that asked things of me which
he wasn't I respect the fuck out of my dad and would love to gain his admiration but
there but there's the and it's like but this idea of because this character he's just
physically tortured and emotionally crazy where it comes from I remember reading an article
an interview with Emilio Estevez and they asked him did did what did his father did
he urge the kids to be in that business and what Emilio said was no I think we both just
admire our dad and if our dad was a roofer we would be in the roofing business and that
made sense to me I didn't have that kind of I didn't adhere to my father like that but
I I think you need a father and if your father lists you'll feel it you'll be groping in
life for some lessons you might learn more easily than the hardware and yet fathers can
be the worst thing and then generally you need one but it's not the end of your problems
having one it can be I am endlessly fascinated by it I want to ask you a question that is
part spoiler kind of if anyone in the audience is like has not seen the show and therefore
is going to watch it I don't think this is a tremendous spoiler it's not like a plot
spoiler it's a little bit of a character spoiler but I can't I need to ask you about it this
is the actor who plays Locke from Lost what's that actor's name yeah tell you a quinn
by the way this cast is just fucking incredible Kurt Witt Smith is every single actor is is
like you just kind of like someone that you're you're you just like watching them talk and
the the but so that father in the second season there's a distinct point like right about smack
in the atonement with the father section of the story circle of the second season about
three quarters through where where where where it's all of a sudden and maybe I'm wrong about
this for the first time it's revealed that his father doesn't do wet work doesn't do physical
conflict you're dead on that's that was devastating for me yeah I was like oh no I thought I thought
he would give me this is a boring interviewer like I haven't seen the show what are you talking
about it's a CIA father and son and like his son is like this fucking like like he fucking
kills people for a living it does shit that hurts him he loses like limbs and think of
the anyways but but like but don't you think that that is that fathers expect their sons
to do things that they can't do themselves I do that too with my son I say why can't you
get an A in science I could never get an A in science and A in math and I find myself
saying well I expect you because you have a you have a different intellect to be able
to do that and then I stopped myself and I raised my son in a way where I always quit
when I started to say well if someone's picking on you you have to fight them because I don't
think I would do that and maybe it would be that I just would chicken out but I know that
I wouldn't do it but my father would tell me to do things that I knew he wouldn't do
and but that is a small identification of a large thing that our guys in government
ask our young people to do and they would never do it how many presidents have we had
who in a row now who haven't been in the army and they're so happy to send our young people
out like they're a little army man and they're playing well and certainly if you're if you're
a patriot part of being a patriot you can't allow for that concept of like wait a minute
the it was a lot I was in my 40s before I learned because my ex-wife's dad was a
what do you got chaplain in the Navy that was the first time I actually learned that
officers don't come up through the ranks just start there yeah they just started
officer school and I was like especially the chaplain though if they had the chaplains
in there at the beginning you know I'm just asking like military questions like just
answer me questions about how the Navy works and then along the way I'm like wait a minute
go back wait what and it's like oh yeah no infantry like regular rank and file people
they can actually there's a ceiling at like sergeant if you're gonna be a general you
go to a special school called you're gonna be a general maybe right and then my question
is like why doesn't that just destroy everything and the answer is patriotism not as opposed
to the pride we feel in a system it's precisely what we're writing about yeah and so it's
like that it's like if your dad's saying I'm I'm do you think that our protagonist in
patriot do you think he thinks that he's a smart person do you think he thinks his dad
is smarter than him we caught up with him at a time where he's too overwhelmed by events
to think that his challenges he knows that thinking is a big big problem the only the
only space he has to express anything other than marching forward is through the music
so he he doesn't contemplate the right or wrong he fights to get out of the fix that he's
in and the show it it only takes place over 17 days now when we're 20 we're 20 hours in
I know there's all this non-linear shit you do so many things this is the highest compliment
I want to give you and I hate when people pretend that they're backhanded compliments
or compliments I really do not mean it this way I want to say that like I I disagree
with your are not disagree with I'm befuddled by some creed some choices that you make so
often and and I'm still riveted like I will go like wait does this guy I will ask myself
every 10 minutes while I'm watching your show is this guy a sociopath I will ask myself
if you're Republican or Democrat I'll ask myself if you're if you think that me me too
me too I know it's funny to like like bully people or if you're like doing what I do
and Rick and Morty which is like hey it's a fucked up universe I'm doing what you do
but like you do it in a way that's like very challenging sometimes and but also the results
are it's incredibly funny because I believe that the guy is real because he's he's in
a terrible job he's like the equivalent of a sewage plant worker yeah well it has to
work and shit the show it focuses on people who break things that can't be put back together
versus the shows that concentrate on problems that can't be solved swept under the rug or
put in the past so so in that sense there's a little bit of a different bargain we have
with the audience where you will well if you take dog day afternoon which is a model for
us I think you know within 10 minutes that they will they will not accomplish that goal
accomplish the goal of what a robbing away with the narrative goal yeah right and you
know it will end poorly for someone you care about right but you continue to watch and
that I ask as a filmmaker is why do you continue to watch what is it that compels you to stay
interested in this thing and I think you make a connection to that kind of energy where
you are just watching someone try to fix something that can't be fixed does it have to do with
the women in the family because the the mom is a strange you know like I keep because
one of the things that I ask being from the Midwest like you while I'm watching this show
there's kind of a it's it's sort of like the it's like like I keep asking myself well when
is the scene coming where where we where we understand that the son admires this father
so much and then I think to myself that scene is called the son becoming his brother his
brother's like a diplomat like he's like kind of like it's I don't want to explain your
characters but I feel like the part of the irony of the story is that the brother who
is doesn't work in murder that he wishes he could he what it's like he he's like very
comfortable lying and like kind of digs it but he wouldn't be good at it is that oh it
absolutely the happiest people in patriot are the ones who work in government at the level
that's of congressman or cabinet member but there's always guys it's like all this masculinity
and then it's almost like if you talked about it even for a second it's a seal that would
break and your father for instance would go oh my son just expressed like you can you can
come to your father and say I'm in a mess I'm losing my mind I'm on a million drugs but
what you can't say is I don't want to kill this person I am feeling insecure I'm feeling
vulnerable because the dad would immediately I've talked to like stunt my friends who are
stunt workers and they go like oh yeah like I had to get kicked in the balls on the harness
and I failed so will Smith was just kicking my actual balls for 20 takes but I couldn't
I I know I have a legal right and I could have gone like my actual balls are being kicked
there I don't know if I can have children anymore but it's the Wild Wild West it's going to be
a hit and if I there's this there's this stuntman code that's like I I'm here because I don't
slow anything down I am the whole point of my job is someone says it'd be great if someone
put up a window start on fire and roll around and you want to be that person yeah and and
that if you ever go like even if you nail it and like roll and everyone's applauding
if you stood up and said like huh kind of touch and go there for a while it was fuck
you like that there's a fear there of like a vulnerability well we have an episode in
season two that if you if you do watch the show you'll recognize that we have these title
cards that introduce one episode after the other that are unique to the show there was
a show great thank you they all have we don't call them episode 16 we say Patriot 16 like
I hope that that creates this idea that there can be a an unexpected necessary next place
to go but in season two we have an episode that's it called fuck John Wayne for all the
reasons that you're talking about and I thought why don't we just say it we'll put write it
on a shirt and we can make some noise about people before us who used our art form to
make themselves rewarded and make other people diminished by their make believe I love some
people's make believe and I don't like other people's make believe and I don't particularly
like his so so we had we I think we're very clear about that that we are on the side of
the people who believe that that kind of bravery comes with a terrible cost right this is a
comedy by the way but there are people in your show I mean like let me let me let me throw
some questions over you because we're talking about tonality so like like the little fella
that comes to Paris and it's like he's the little cop from Milwaukee and he and and and
our our hero is drunk and high and I'm so resonating with this moment where he's like
I have gotten so fucked up so drunk so high I'm having such a good time with my friends
and oh these cops have followed me to Paris and and one of them is little he's a I don't
know if he's clinically a little person he's a little he's a little person he's he's so
little that they talk about how little he is and they talk about how strategically
therefore he's he we don't have to fight him because his strides are shorter and all this
stuff and like there's a mom there's the moment before our hero quote unquote that gets into
the cab he's so drunk and so high and he he's like he's doing the actual traditional
like he's holding the little guy's head so is he can't punch him and it's sort of like
you know I asked him I asked him not to shoot a drop not to do that and he Mike Dormany
said it's impossible not to do that with that that thing but it was but I mean I mean are
you thinking like are you thinking like like life is so cruel like it's like it's almost
like a like because I wait I'll tell you this story because this yeah what do you want this
this really happened what's that yeah well if you didn't want him to do that what did
you want no tell me the story go ahead I think this is true well we were going to believe
that is the that's how the Iliad begins when that's actually how your show begins the entire
show is is appropriately there's the whole wrap around is there's a some kind of hearing
happening where everyone is going answering questions from an unseen searcher going oh
this is what happened I think it is true that in the 1980s when cities were all broke and
falling apart and crime rates were going through the roof that in Jersey City New Jersey the
so many policemen were being injured that the insurance companies were growing going broke
paying out their bills their health bills they they instituted size restrictions that were
new to the police force cops who weighed too much had to go work in an office and cops who
were under a certain height had to go work in an office so they took good police officers
off the street the part that I like the most that I think is true also is that they gave
them a three month period before they were going to pull them out pull them off the streets
and into the offices and the idea was if they could make series if they could make a series
of like spectacular arrests if they could distinguish themselves the way that policemen
do and win awards they could stay on the streets so what I pictured when I heard that and this
is the part I actually think happened that there were a bunch of really tiny policemen
running around trying to make really important arrests so seven dwarfs just hauled me off
the jail talking about they getting promotions so picture picture an office space now the
ones who couldn't do that working in an office with each other like the cop with one leg
and the overweight cop and the tiny cop are we trying to maintain your dignity in that
environment these are those policemen from Milwaukee and they they have they happen on
some evidence that could allow them to bust this whole thing open and they decide that
they can do something about it and they're very good we do love all of them and you
referenced the fuck John Wayne thing which is one of those other cops he does a monologue
says I he was a war veteran and he lost he got injured so much that it hurts when he
walks and for the longest time he was embarrassed to walk because the face he'd make when he
would walk would cause him pain and he was worried about the face making him a pussy
and he was a soldier after all and he he he one day burst through a membrane by making
a t-shirt writing on marker and they should you show MOS footage flashback of him doing
it says fuck John Wayne on his shirt so that he can now walk around a track by himself
it's a shirt for nobody but himself because John Wayne's name was Marion and he didn't
go to war and he he he like all of that stuff is an illusion and in fact what's not an
illusion is the John Wayne syndrome of men feeling like they have to be men so much that
they actually do the least manly thing of all which is not admit that they are weak
that they that they have that they that they are in pain well that's really cool and
beautiful and it's it's right where we want to be but the but but but but you do that
with that guy but the poor little guy he doesn't have a story he's just little and
you're like and and and I'm not I'm swear to God I'm not only calling you out I'm
like I what it could be because it's like your show it's it's it's it's your show
does these things where I'm like God damn it why why'd you do that but if I knew
why you did it you'd be Chuck Lorre like it's not over yet shot fired or chuck can
take it you know if you if you do care to like the show you'll notice that
everything comes back does it come back for that poor little guy well he came
back with that we stuffed him in a locker in the first season I know he just
little I don't but but I'm not it's it now it sounds like I'm calling you up
but I'm seeing I'm seeing like this but I have the same questions for God like
that's a that's why it's a big compliment because I don't know if I can do
any better because you're you're you confuse me sometimes like what you
do things like so that the Luxembourg police like this is amazing that like
the layered decisions like the Luxembourg police station is this palatial
that's like a that's just a funny thing like if you go to Luxembourg which has
a homicide rate of zero until our protagonist comes through town in the
story at which point it multiplies very quickly because it has a homicide rate
of zero previous to the narrative happening the entire homicide department
because it's a less glamorous place because if your homicide rate is zero
then that makes homicide the equivalent of like maybe parking parking tickets
and so the entire homicide department is women and the and there's all these toxic
men who are like in lesser departments criminally speaking who are losing
their fucking minds that murder has come to Luxembourg and these inferior women
are in charge of solving it when they know and and like the first season it's
like this is amazing conversations your your your dialogue has this like weird
mystical realism thing to it where every single character in your universe
basically speaks like one person is that an insult like like like that like
like like like they you don't bother with like oh this is flow she she's from
Alabama so she makes grits like you like every character whether they're an
assassin or whether whatever language of that they're speaking their language
and their subtitles like they all have the same
propensity for lost details I'll what I'll hear when you say that is that
everybody speaks organically everybody speaks the way we do to each other
it's halting is casual right like you don't bother to do what could be an
insulting thing which is to be a writer and go like well this person's a
crawfish hunter so I'm gonna I'm gonna modify their vocabulary or their
patois or whatever it's like there's they'll like it's an international
spy drama so people will be speaking French but the subtitles are like it's
like yeah they're saying they're following these chains of logic it's
it's really good man I hope you're not being insulted by that what I'm talking
about because I by the way I do this thing I don't try to affect like I don't
try to make characters it's like please don't give it a second thought I'm so
happy to be here to talk about any of it at all and I know that you dig the
show and I love that it provokes these questions from you it's our intention to
be able to talk about the show like this now the this idea that everybody
talks to each other with some recognizably regular way is it's a choice of
ours to make this thing feel like make-believe but then also more believable
than a Jason Bourne series right the it's more believable because of the
emotional dynamics yeah or just the the way the people's appetites get
expressed that we can concentrate on the ten things that someone wants to be
able to feel satisfied or to have dignity people get counted in our show
counted on in our show considered in the show by each other in ways that
allows them to help each other that John is not the only person in the show
who needs love they're all the group that you identified the little cop and
the one-legged cop they call themselves the broken toys yeah yeah but everybody
in the show is a but you throw that away you totally throw that away like the
season two it said one time right right that's what you do that you throw
shit like that away all the time like you just have three cops in there but I'm
saying and then they'll go like all right broken toys and what broken toys
like they're the misfit toys but yeah that's an important distinction but I
said broken season three they recreate that three ranking in bass well if we're
allowed to make one okay they recreate that ranking in bass stop motion
misfit toys song together in a Christmas episode Jesus that sounds
unsellable but if you want to do it I can know some stop-motion animation studios
yeah yeah I can help you with that award-winning done similar things I
there's you said something that so here is the fucking crazy Marianas trench
like question for me does this fucking show take place in reality or not because
you defy for me like I you it makes me twitch when I'm watching the show
precisely because I'm usually able to like at some point go okay this is a
metaphor or I E like it's like mystical like like like you watch like a like a
crazy ironic action movie where you start to go okay this is tongue-in-cheek like
like I like crank or gun shoot gun shoot them up or whatever worth like where
you're like loading fingers into a gun and shooting people with their own
fingers the your your show it it it jet skis like back and forth across the
the wake of that because the the most fundamental things about traveling and
doing things are what are driving things they all make everything go awry but
I'm so curious about like how you think stabbing people and shooting people
because I don't you maybe you're right and I'm wrong or like every way people
keep getting stabbed and shot in your show and they're like I got stabbed and
then they're like can you can you help me and then like someone goes yeah like
like I don't know they just like don't seem to I would like if I got my fingers
shot off spoilers sorry like I would be like okay no more fingers no more
fingers that's it take me to jail my dad's been stabbed what's that my dad's
been stabbed a couple times so I don't know who he doesn't work here I thought
he was with you do you guys know we can we hear at least can we hear at least
one of those stories oh yeah I know that's I'm happy that that's I want to hear
about your dad being stabbed he got he got robbed on what he called New
Years Eve in LA and the guy was like give me your money and my dad was like
fuck off and he is like no give me your money and my dad like was like fuck off
and then he was like what by what by and he he got him twice in the French is
that French for redundant it's a it's French for stab but yeah I caught him
in the face great it was good they call him I don't remember how to say
Scarface in Spanish but that's what he wanted people to call him I don't think
it caught on but it happened in LA and he went back and I was like check this
out to Columbia where he lives my devils in Columbia whoa hey guys it's me no
no sorry no this is all just to say people can be stabbed yeah I know what
there's so many ways like here's an example of your show being both grounded
and absurd in a way that completely draws me in there's a cold open of one of
your episodes that I almost wanted to like transcribe and just read aloud I
really am very grateful that I didn't do it because people should I want to
like look at you it's like a like you're you're you're you write
incredibly like like you're writing and directing so many like is it all of
the episodes or I did all the episodes in season two I don't even know I'm like
what the fuck again with this guy like like written and directed Jesus Christ
are you hogging credit or are you a fucking animal but like you're you're
doing too much and stuff and then I'm like no but the same voice is permeating
and there's like there's a cold open where it's just our protagonist and he's
like ostensibly at some point during his training and he's like looking through
a weird textbook and all you hear is the off-screen voice of a CIA
Tim Blake Nelson who's who's what's that that's Tim Tim Nelson the off-screen
instructor is Tim Nelson and who's it it's just a big long monologue the actor
doing the monologue is completely off-screen so all you're looking at is
our silent protagonist is he just examines a textbook and all you're hearing is
a man explaining how to punch a dog unconscious
it's like it's not extremely it's like people don't like you you run into a
thing and the dogs are trained what's the mistake that people make oh they want
to panic they want to know what do you do what do you do a dog well the dog wants
to do one thing he wants to bite a limb offer him your your your least valuable
limb use the other to punch the dog yes until it's unconscious on this stage I
have said these things and they and the and the and the and the and the and the
and the instructor goes into a gratuitous and therefore further grounding
amount of detail about how the for God's sakes the dog's got a little tiny brain
it just needs to be punched a certain amount of times before it goes
unconscious if you if you were in a fight with an 80 pound man you would laugh
it off you would figure out ways to be a dog is 80 pounds just figure like it's
the instructor is an expert on how to beat a dog unconscious but is still
offended by the idea that his students I really haven't figured it out yet that
it's easier than you think and and all you're just you just see and it's but
it's almost like it's Brechtian like there's like like because then Tim
Tim finishes with please turn to page nine and we'll learn how to knock a
woman unconscious with a bicycle yes and then and only then it cuts over his
shoulder or he turns the page and there's an intact like that's I love but then
it because it's a whole illustration of how to knock a woman out with a
but then cool Rick does it in episode seven oh yes no of course he does no
I didn't I didn't I'm not going to say I knew that a woman would be knocked out
with a bicycle when I saw that illustration but I yeah I mean you're saying
that like it's like oh that validates it no does it no no I don't mean
validating knocking women out with bicycles that's how I mean I mean as a
man you didn't you you you can do that or not do it and that's gravy I'm in
in isolation that was I thought was so cool simultaneous to that thank you
very much Dan simultaneous to that we're watching Mike Dorman do a Buster Keaton
where he's looking around this classroom to try to find another pair of eyes to
latch on to you say this isn't me or right or is being in the CIA going to be
is it going to get worse before it gets better and he can't find anybody to
return that eye contact so when you get to the end of what I'm hoping happens as
the audience recognizes that he feels alone and overwhelmed it's but I mean
that's that's my point of access for him is that he happens to be good at
something that he'd probably rather not do his songs are they're not McCartney
ask at their level of like he's not like so into harmony as he is into total
self-expression yeah so it's like he probably wouldn't be a platinum record
he doesn't rhyme yeah he more explains how yeah but he explains so well he
explains like he's so good at explaining the things that he's not allowed to talk
about which is such an unfortunate talent the reason we made him a folk
singer is I recognize that if you're singing if you're singing folk music
in a park no one listens they just walk by they don't even take the time to hear
that he is planning on making midnight raids and so he's an invisible voice
like that voice of his isn't heard by by anyone yeah and that what I love is
that the CIA and your universe understand that they don't they come into
a basement in Amsterdam and and and he's he's laying out everything that he has
to do and the CIA's perspective is like well like what yeah they're not they're
not they're not they don't care about that what they care about is that he's
not doing it yeah anyways well but this notion that there people do get hurt
in the show it's important for for so it's so important for us to separate from
the other shows where that it can be the case and that we don't ever walk by
someone who gets hurt on Patriot if someone gets hurt on Patriot they become
part of the Patriot family they get integrated into the storytelling the
French police woman that John makes blind the shop owner who he has to steal
the gun from they all return and then they they read they return to us they
return in the form of consequences but they don't return in the form of
accountability yeah well yeah I mean what but but what if you think about
if you it's it's not cool to debate your show because your show should just do
that yeah of course that's the thing is like you're not trying to make a point
I'm curious about it as a writer you're the god of your universe right so you
make this universe in your universe this protagonist in that one of the first
things that happens and this is the thing that sucked me into the show his
job is to get a job in Milwaukee at a pipe fitter like company which is a
hilarious thing that you you I mean again the chops that you have when you're
the runner of the entire series is like all of the the presentation dialogue
with when people are the difference between men who are fantastic at talking
about pipe fitting and it's just like this weird fusion of gibberish and real
pneumatic terminology and we don't know where one begins and what ends I was
like like like just these like it almost sounds like this like jabber walkie
poem of like like anyways but he has to get this like job at this company and
there's one guy ahead of him for the job and he's next to that guy out in the
street and he pushes the guy into an oncoming bus or whatever and the guy
spends the rest of that season coping with his brain injury that he sustained
in the in this accident the guy of the job but it's like the and I was like oh
that's cool like like he we're gonna find out why a human being would get to a
point where just because his not to disappoint his father he would push
another man into the path of a oncoming car well but that's the that that's an
emotional reason but the the the reason John's being told that the math works
like this that that country is trying to become a nuclear power it's our
government's position that we can't allow that to happen for any number of
threats reasons and then there will be peril if that happens and your job is
to not ask questions but your job is to get this bag from A to B to stop that
from ever happening so there's always this idea that there's this greater
consequence behind the smallness of our world of pain and injury but the show
doesn't care about that I think you can tell where our heart lays in this show
like we love the small moments we we have an expression in the writer's room
we just call it Durga Durga when we're talking about the government stuff and
that's from Team America and it just means these are just words that you won't
remember but it's the it's the super plot it's the plutonium right
Patriot doesn't want to live there very long I mean we need that to have a TV
show but we're acting like the like the guy that got pushed in front of the car
he I'm saying like I'm afraid of God in real life I hate real life and I write
stories because I hate the fact that God like makes my sister retarded for no
reason and there's no resolution to that story like like that I do cruel things
to people and I never get punished for it these are the things that I hate about
life and then I'm I'm I'm sort of like I feel like a difference between me and
you is that and I truly do as a self-loathing writer I go like I think
this makes me oh this is something that I see as a strength in you or at least
intimidating in you like I don't like strength weakness whatever better worse
whatever but it intimidates me about you that you don't feel that pressure to
make sure that that guy got that that got pushed into traffic that he I don't
know gets his comeuppance which he really doesn't he he he becomes like kind of a
running gag I mean he he's an annoyance he's an obstacle that it's an
inconvenience to our hero that he did that to a person but it's like sort of
like oh man I hurt this guy so now this guy I got to deal with this guy the
unspoken thing maybe next time was kill him yeah that not you didn't say that
God didn't say that in your universe but it's like sort of like it never resolves
like oh shit I here's how I picked it back up we we see we see John riding
his bicycle at night in a really treacherous race where they intentionally
run stop signs and run through railroad tracks and he's singing a song about this
young person who he pushed in front of a truck and he says he has to have a
therapy companion now and he's probably never gonna laugh again and what does that
mean if you can't have laugh if you can't if you can't laugh you probably
will can't have love so he sings this in a song on this bicycle in this race
called the Charles Groton and then he hurts more people between episode 2 and
episode 10 and then episode episode 10 he he rides in front of a moving car so
that he'll be killed yeah so it he's carrying the weight of that stuff the
the the momentum of that causes him not to want to be alive anymore oh god he
wants definitely wants to die but it's because of those things it's because
he's been told that these are these are collateral people and he knows that
they're not who could love their father that much the answer is you and I
respect that so much that you are like poor I mean you I like really I here's the thing like you
like we'll talk about other stuff now I wanted to take a deep dive into that like
I think God you're out there like like like pitching hey let me do this and then
you're and then you just fucking like like to me I just I feel kind of like like
like I have like a valve in my head that makes me go okay but yeah at the end of the
day though you got to make the nice people happy and it's not like you're
being punk rock and throwing your shit at the audience in a in a in a bar like
what you're doing is like you're a little bit like the protagonist or
something that you're like you don't have that like terror of disappointing
strangers as much as something else you're answering some kind of I don't
know you remind me of Nick Pitzolato the true detective guy like I don't it's like
I these writers that I'm like the fuck did you do that for and they're like oh
no man just fucking right and I'm like cuz I cuz I'm like my answer is like why
the fuck would you do anything to make people like you and I like and then I
have this like nuanced awareness of course they're not gonna like you if they
ever get wind of that so I'll do a little thing where is the guy you love to
hate Hong Kong but not really like like and and then there's like in this
like streaming age of television where there's like there's executives they're
willing to buy your show because they're gonna put it on Amazon where it gets
lost in a search engine for spatulas like like you I'm not I'm not talking shit
that you haven't experienced like you're you've you got a second season but your
show is like being on Amazon is like a weird mixed blessing it's like maybe
you'll win an Emmy maybe no one will ever find your show ever because they're
happy selling irons like like I don't know what it will like you're gonna
respond to that go yeah it's fucked up you hear that Amazon it's fucked up yeah
you should come over to a dull slam but at the same time it's like if you and I
if you were if you and I were but it's like like well this isn't gonna work on
CBS ABC or NBC so I don't want to live in that world where it's like oh it
doesn't work on one of those three so let's not do it I mean you made a show
it's like beautifully shot by the way you're a fantastic director like you're
you're you're you're fucking like almost obsessive desire to stay in the wide I
want to fucking kiss you thank you damn you you play so many scenes in the fucking
wide I love it like like would love you thank you thank you as a director I love
you I love that you're a writer than you're fucking shooting it and you're
like yeah fucking why ruin a winner the fucking guy walks in they have a
conversation fucking do it yeah every when you cut to shit it disrupts your
brain it's like a seismic event we're doing rocket my face into another guy's
face that's like you fucking play see like people I love it rocket my face
it's something that's that's crazy because that's exactly how I feel I feel like
whoa whoa like not so fast but you also do crazy POV shit yeah well they're so
to illustrate the effects of drugs and alcohol yeah like like like which is
attractive it's not obnoxious like you just show hmm his POV and you're like
yeah he's pretty high well I just want the whoever cares to come to the show to
really get lost inside of of that world because we do ask a lot of the audience
it can be peculiar in turns but the cinema of it shouldn't be I think I don't
want to look like TV I think the show takes it's a part of this newer art form
where we inherited this thing from the Sopranos and Deadwood where you can just
keep a story going I wanted to feel like a new sort of thing and I have these
great filmmaking partners on the show and I'm glad that you appreciated that part
of it because it's part of the power of the show if it works for you it's part of
it are you a melch guy yeah I'm a big fan yeah who's designing those title
sequences by the way because you mentioned it like the title cards for your
show yeah it's like it's a graphic designer named Alex Shen who works in
San Francisco this one kid oh really I mean yeah hats on hats on talented
I just one more thing about just because I just wanted because you're again I
mentioned the actors so I like as a writer and director like like on the on
the on the spectrum of actors are cattle they're incredibly valuable cattle so
try to find the ones that are the best looking cattle all the way to the other
end of the spectrum which is actually you know what we barely do anything and at
the end of the day either Joel McHale and Allison Breary and your show or they're
not and if you like like because they're attractive people people to tune in like
I've gone I've gone to both places like in my put where I'm like you know what
we do we put pretty heads on about not pretty heads that sounds to diminishing
no I like like like people that people want to look at and listen to talk and
as writers because there's a reason why no one tunes into a fucking script and
it's just how do you feel about actors as a race
I have had films where I'm not directing them just kind of go away if you can't
figure out how to communicate to the actor if the actors just gonna take it
and on Patriot we just don't have that we have the getting through the day is the
only ordeal on Patriot just shooting a lot of pages the actors are glad I think
to come to work and to be complicated and we have good-looking people in the
show I don't I guess I don't look at it like that they've all become really
important to me and they're also like Mike doorman he's a good-looking guy
oh my god but that's not what he but that's not what he pushes on the show
he's so much more but he's more hole he's more I know I seriously it's really
notable the size of man crush I get I think it's it's more about it's his
sweater he's like he's just so cute like like like and so sad but the show
points do you want to do you want to fix him I want to fit I want to fix him yeah
yeah so sad and all the all the all the female characters in the show from
little six-year-old girls to his own mother their victims of his sadness and
his own wife is like yeah no he's really sweet like when he's high actually
he doesn't get violent like like and he he he's characterized as sad and like all
these beautiful shots you do just showing him walking from one job to the
next because now he's gonna deal with this and he just and he's performing
he's got his Percocet jaw like to is that I didn't I just found out tonight
because I bothered to Wikipedia him he's Australian what the fuck I just I
can't believe these fucking like Kiwis and Aussies that are like like they're
actors like they're playing Americans and they're fucking like god damn these
people we should actually like we should we should start closing our borders
well it just occurred to me there are they're all different but if I had to
make a generalization which is not a good idea ever but they they don't acting
is not a way to become a celebrity there it's a way to be an artist so they're
not any different than our camera operator they don't act any different than
the rest of our crew who he is a humble and tremendously hard-working artist
i.e. abusable we I mean I'm gonna be glib but I know he we we put Mike in the he
swam the English yeah she did a TV show and he but he also yeah the character
climbs over can I ask you that one quite what's with the electric fence thing like
what did you like what you you can climb over an electric fence if you can just
withstand the pain well it's a beautiful scene he explains the little girl
is like she's like what are you gonna do tonight yeah well you can because there
are liabilities with electric fences the here's the they're not allowed they're
not allowed to be lethal they exactly they they they have to be less voltage
than would knock a toddler unconscious also if you spread out in case the
toddler wandered into that's good to know it's about willpower yeah it's
random it's this is combination of if it was just like a sort of like visceral
like here's how you do this because like that hi we get from the Jason Bourne
thing where it's like like I know how to pick a lock and I could say you you do
this weird childish thing that like I don't know where he goes like I have to
jump 40 feet onto a balcony and then the the person he's talking to goes make
sure you land on your butt and he goes that's not that's a that's an absolute
mistake no that's a lot of everyone thinks that if you landed on your butt in a
40-foot fall you're you could any names all the medical things that could happen
to you that would basically incapacitate you he's like the best thing you can do
is submit to the fact that you're going to be unconscious for 17 minutes by
going sideways and knocking your head because you're landing on your side and
then and then hitting your accepting that your head's gonna get hit and so he
just like he's like I'm gonna jump 40 well that's but that's in that book here's
the way it's expressed the safest thing to do is to land on the organ that is
protected by an encasement of bone which is your head right then on your
shoulder but when we made the boy did not directly on your head but no but like
but that's the thing like he doesn't that is it like you can't if you land on
your head you'll break your neck like he doesn't like but but but it's like
better your head but but like it's like it's a little shit like that like where
he that also it interests the mystical realm because his plan or lack of is
that he's gonna go into the building and he's gonna jump and he knows that he's
gonna be unconscious for 17 minutes which he is he's just a guy laying on a
balcony unconscious and then he wakes up and then he walks into a building that
he doesn't have to now clip wires he just laid there in a balcony for 17
minutes unconscious and he gets up and goes the thing he snatches the file he
needs like it's it's yeah it's if you were if you were asking the viewer to
believe every single thing like Tom Clancy you you wouldn't get away with
that yeah but you're also saying this person is alone they're sad and all this
stuff and it's like it's good the the okay here's here's the thing I want to
talk talk about the it's that it's that friendship with Rob Saperstein is that
his name yes yeah so all right so that's got to be the heart of you like like
like like what it who is that guy Rob for you like what is that that's the
friendship for you that's like crazy yeah I have one of those Jim Becker is a
is a is that friend of mine who's a musician who Rob is when I write Rob I
think of Jim this guy has a friend he'd rather be a musician and he has this
friend who looks like Jerry Garcia he's just like this chill dude but in season
one we we were pretty sure he hung himself right oh god now I'm spoiling
like a watch show like like maybe he did hung himself sorry who he what he means
to John is a life whose only complication is do you prefer the Willie
Nelson version of Poncho and Lefty to Townes Van Zandt that's where John wants
to be he wants to be in a bar having that debate yeah that's what I want to
really is is that what you want do you want to just hang out and drink and with
you yeah oh yeah yeah I'm a I'm a real joy you know but but but if you it's like
you do you do you write and make stuff as a as a how to what degree is it like
well it's I suck at washing dishes and I just want to keep people from killing
me like and what and to what extent is it like we're gonna do it because it's so
important like I feel like if I found my what writing you mean the work yeah
well like let's say making stuff because you do all the above like do you if
you if you if you were an heir to a Nike fortune would you be doing what you do
or you do it because you desperately didn't want to die of starvation and
now it's an addiction excuse the pun my brother air to my my brother plays
Dennis in the show my brother is the guy it was good wait your brother is Dennis
yeah are you shitting me no oh my god that's funny that's we've been doing
that our whole lives just making stuff up and filming it and so I would be doing
that I guess with Chris and with my friends on the show that I I prefer
music and movies to writing anything else because you're not alone all the
time writing is tremendously hard because of all the time you have to spend
by yourself and it is that it's the only it's the only aspect of that color of
that huge collaboration of people that whole thing that only one person does
alone and it's really hard for me and I don't like it an awful lot and as time
goes by I like it less and less writing by yourself yeah yeah just writing
period it's like fuck it yeah I mean you know no it's fucking like it is it feels
like yeah I don't even know I want to say cutting but that's like to glamour
no right it's like not cutting it's homework because cutting productive and
interesting not to if you kids and you're cutting don't I don't want to
glamorize cutting I'm saying writing is shittier it's like not as cool it's like
garbage it's like it's like rubbing a fucking pencil in and out of your nasal
cavity so you're writing you're writing right now trying to find yeah exactly
it's like it's like oh there we go again another reason to feel pain because I
tried to fucking figure out how to explain something yeah geez or that or
Minecraft thank you like like fuck writing fuck writing like I just thank
you for I'm so glad you said that because you're truly I mean I'm I feel very
confident like and going like I know a good writer when I hear they're writing
like that to me to me it's not like it's not about like well thank you to me like
movies and TV shows and narratives and stuff I have this obsession about
structure and stuff where I don't know where I'd be getting in that's kind of
what I've been circling with it but then you get down to the root of the matter
where like I I am always like Quentin Tarantino is so good at dialogue yeah
there's such a I don't care if he falls in and out of fashion I don't care what
it's like interesting to say academically about the structure of his
films or whatever like I know when someone is writing dialogue when they
have like this gift like you are you you have so much like pouring out of you I
think that's what it is that I'm when I'm watching this show it's just like I'm
never more than 10 seconds away from no matter what corner you've been boxed
into someone's gonna say something that I'm like huh that's a weird way of saying
that like this guy really was on a deadline or drunk or like both of those
might have been true to go hand-in-hand but I care as hard as writing is like I
think it maybe is that hard because I care about it a lot I think the worst
thing you can do to have something oh do you care about it like if you're gonna
make rocking chairs it's like first rule care about it like if you go to
McDonald's ago care about McDonald's you probably like excel at McDonald's you
go to writing McDonald's and the and the and it's like oh if you care you're
gonna fail writing McDonald's don't care I picture the uniforms and it sounds like
fun I think we should open a writing McDonald's you're right not only will
you fail you will pay a tremendous personal cost in your life too you'll
become a person who's impossible to live with you'll have a terrible reputation
idea you'll have people will be like well I don't know what he's doing down
there he's in the office he locked himself in he apparently thinks he's
writing the Citizen Kane of episodes about a fucking pickle or whatever like
he thinks he's fucking hot shit like I riffed that example as if to like buy it
back and go oh that was worth it Dan but it's like no it probably wasn't that it
was like I wrote that one in my sleep with like over the weekend with
just like like yeah it's just like it's like like like the shit I've spent this
today I spent today like highlighting and deleting so much shit that I spent so
much time writing for fucking like oh Rick's gonna really be funny when he
says this and then I'm just like noticing this is highlight delete because I
finally have the luxury of going like oh no one's fighting me I'm in no fight so
now I can objectively go yeah that's crap and then I'm like noted I'm like you
spent three hours on that line I've die like for no reason sorry man I hate
writing as our point yeah it's just such a garbage job it's such a fake job it's
a fake job well I went too far I went too far you say you're saying that the
guild might withhold our payments no but I mean obviously it's fake it's it's
fiction it's a lie but it's more than it's more than just because you're
nice I'm saying you're lying about it being it's like we only did you either
write something good because you fucking like had to you can't like I hate it
that would like a go like oh I'm gonna make this good and then it's like six
hours later and it's like you made it bad have you ever made anything good
because you spent more time on it no it all accidentally or with an impossible
to recognize source just comes to you and you can never call it all you can do
is fend off the people who want their scripts until that happens the talent
you must have is being able to make people wait until that thing finally
accidentally comes together music's not like that the music has an entirely
different way of coming together that is it more peaceful than that like the
writing fiction is the hardest thing I've encountered among all the different
things I do on Patriot that is the the miserable job yeah chief among it like
figuring out like what someone's supposed to do next what's supposed to
happen next the plot shit like you said yeah I just like I'm like oh put two
people in a room let me have this father say to this son I need to do this and
then boy this son's gonna let him have it but like I'm different from you because
the whole time the son is letting the father have it I would have one eye on
the audience and I'd be going like right like come on man no one likes a bully
and you're like you're deeper than that to me because you're going like I don't
care like I'm like here's what it feels like to love your father so much that it
hurts everyone around you that's grown-up shit so thank you for doing that
even though it's next to the spatulas it's under the spatula I really hope the
show gets a third season thank you just because well actually maybe I don't
because I want you to do whatever you would do if it didn't I mean like you
get your you've you've you've done he's already put in I we heard him he's put
in work into the third season already hasn't done it yet look I want to see
this guy suffer a little bit about Steven where you from you said yeah
okay yeah what part shot that out just in case we listen because we go to
Chicago every once in a while boys down leg view a leg view boys down I don't
know literally no yeah so right off a belt model a little bit yeah yeah awesome
but we write the show there and no one who works on the show right in there
your offices are there yeah yeah in the summer please tell me not in the winter
yeah right you guys it's easy to write in the in the winter in Chicago there's
nothing else to do but I think that helps us but nobody who works on the show
has they're not part of the thing yeah they're all just people I picked out
from Chicago who have worked with me for 10 years and the only way they know to
do anything is our way which isn't a better way that's great hey you can tell
them when you go back there Dan Harmon said they're doing it the right way I
really I really there's so much like yeah I can tell when you guys are
laughing sometimes and then I'm when I'm not big confused I like that idea of
like the Luxembourg cops like their toxic masculinity like going like oh
these with anyways all right sorry I'm beating a dead horse that you guys are
fucking nailing I hope you get a third season but again if you don't you're
gonna make something that's even darker and more awful that will benefit
mankind let's talk about Tim Allen's the Santa Claus so are you have you seen
the first thank you for your applause I have have you seen the first one I not
only did I see the first one I was traumatized by considering being
divorced which is the heaviest decision somebody can make watching a movie that I
think pretty much said the only way your son will love you if you're a divorced
dad as if you become this mythical bestower of gifts I was so drawn into
the first week my girlfriend and I started watching the sienna clause one
and I I was like holy shit when it didn't fade in on sleigh bells ring and
that's like a like french fry wrappers and it's like like he's like oh I hate
Christmas you know what I mean or like a yuppie who's like fuck Christmas I gotta
work it was neither Tim Allen was like totally get it the importance of
Christmas like love my family wish my son would spend Christmas with me I'm
like wait this is the third act of most Christmas movies and I know from the
billboard that this guy's gonna become Santa Claus I got really way too excited
because I was like this shit's gonna go deep because the only available arc for
this guy has to do with his divorce and his acceptance of his sons that that
he's like it's like that he's gonna like that Santa Claus is gonna fall off the
roof because I saw the trailer so I know what happens that he gets the suit and
I was that he was gonna be like are you fucking kidding me I'm gonna prove my
my son's stepfather like such a fucking piece of shit and then the reindeer or
the elves would be like dude Christmas can't be weaponized we just zoom out
first why are you why did you watch the three of them what well I haven't watched
all three of them I got I got halfway through the second one just blew my
fucking mind or no no I got through I got through the whole I got through the
whole second one because I saw the ending which blew my mind that but the
the answer is because Cody's like she's like what's a good Christmas movie she's
Jewish and I'm like I'm like there's no good Christmas movies I like what like
Christmas is dumb Christmas isn't dumb but like the idea that like most
movies suck so then you add oh what a good Christmas you know it's like
saying that it's just you know there's Christmas story but I always I always
like it when we watch it like Christmas story is yeah I would seen it right how
many times can you watch it so I was glad I watched Santa Claus like it turned
into a kind of a random like showcase of the stand-up comics like it's like oh
he's a good guy he's very sexy he's very practical it's not about Tim Allen yeah
I don't know I'm sad that that's what the movie is saying this movie is gonna go
deep and it didn't I was I was mistaking the movie like being kind of
irresponsibly amorphous because the I think it was so written by committee
that I was like project I was like this shit's gonna get fucking create
nuanced because because he needs to get over his judge
judgmentalism like like like basically he's gonna get in charge of who's naughty
and who's nice and he's gonna need to accept that if you have that power you
need to be like Woodrow Wilson's like administration you need to like anyways
but it no I wouldn't I want to watch you watch that day Cody and I was that we
just pause movies like and then we're like the thing we both agreed on the
entire time we were watching Santa Claus one is like we both kept saying I'm so
excited there's two more of these which kind of explains or like that's why
there's two more of them because we both kept also going like yes start this
suck like it doesn't make any sense but at the very end of the Santa Claus one
which I think seems like a very low-budget kind of thing where they
didn't quite believe in it like I think Tim Allen was like yeah like you know
he's a tool timer or something and they're like you know we'll give you
$20 million in some morphing bits like maybe the chimney can like morphe a
little bit heard about this morphing thing and we'll build three sets and
it's got it was kind of like it was sort of like a sleeper hit like it felt like
watching a lethal weapon one where it's like oh they didn't believe this was
gonna do anything and then the second one was like fucking boom like because the
first one ends with like a couple of kids putting on jet packs like elves and
they're like we got we're elves and we got jet packs and then they and then and
you're like you can tell that like they want people watch the first one they're
like I love the elves and the jet packs second ones like 90 million dollars
fades in a CG fucking things as elves and jet packs everywhere this story is so
fucking awful I was like you know like 20 so here's the mind-blowing thing Santa
Claus 2 have you seen it isn't that's the missus claws yeah it's the missus
claws so here's the fucking this is before in the beginning of the movie
it's like Tim Allen is already Santa Claus because obviously in the
resolution of the first movie he's like well now I love I'm gonna live at the
North Pole forever until I die and I'm gonna be to Santa Claus so it fades in
on that so he's just like I'm Santa Claus and I'm Tim Allen and I'm Santa
Claus and I love it I love it and everything's fine and and then like
somebody tell him and he's like somebody tell me what and they're like you
have to have a wife or you're gonna turn back into Tim Allen and he's like oh no
and I'm like what what that would have been relevant the first movie when the
movie's gonna happen backwards unless you marry someone yeah I'm already like
okay like I know like so marry someone like everyone like your character is
divorced he's already an expert in the fact that marriage means nothing go find
a woman and explain to her pay her in toys like but instead there's like this
unspoken thing where he's like I'll find a wife in 28 days what do you mean you
could find a wife in 20 minutes people do it every day that's not if you're
talking about the actual just ceremony no but the it's like no I have to I have
to fall in love with a woman that's worth my my undying devotion in 28 days so
in order to accomplish that task they split him in two with a toy machine what
what that turns that turns white continue that turns what one Tim Allen
into a plastic Hitler Santa Claus what yeah what yeah and the other Tim Allen
can slowly morph back into Tim Allen while he goes back home town and finds
a woman that he's entitled to that luckily for him he finds within two women
of his two women montage the first of whom is Molly Shannon who is simply he
goes on one date in a dating montage just one date Molly Shannon shows up but
how can it be a montage if it's not a montage I that's me being like I'm like
like yeah he he as a character is playing it like he's got a whole dating
montage no dude you don't have a dating montage you fuck it you're shit by the
grace of Christ you have an ex-wife who hooked you up with Molly Shannon who by
the way is a pretty attractive fucking well like woman in it who the whole
gimmick of her characters she's so into Christmas that it turns him off fuck you
fuck you it's so fucking great I'm like screaming at the TV I'm like first of
all she goes what do you do of course he has to lie because he's Santa Claus and
everyone knows if you're Santa Claus the whole point is you have to lie it goes
I work in toys and he's like oh because he's like he's like I don't know if this
woman I'm entitled to is like making the cut what do you do and she's like well
I'm a fucking like she rattles off some occupations that I guess are unsexy but
then she's like she's like but what I really want to do is sing and he's like
oh really and she's like yeah do you know Shania Twain I love her and she
starts singing a Shania Twain song and everyone in the restaurant starts going
like including fucking Tim Allen fuck you marry her now stop pretending there's
anything at stake marry this bitch went to New York to fight wherever the fuck
this story takes place the big city are you fucking kidding me do you know
how lucky you are that your ex-wife hooked you up with a Christmas loving bitch you
go to dinner you have to fucking gall oh I don't know if I caught into a
fucking chick singing out loud you're fucking Santa Claus you live in a
fucking secret bunker that if in your wildest dreams if you go down on her
tonight and she likes it you have to then tell her please marry me and if
you say yes come live with me forever at the top of the planet yeah with elves
and rain with a bunch of fucking weird reverse progeria people and animatronic
reindeer and just like spend your life hanging out while I do one thing one
night a year and then suck my dick will pull you please if you would please if
you would please I would I require it for my thing and I was like oh and you're
why does Molly Shannon said yes to that she's singing I'd be like fucking bank
let's do it but he's like oh no he's only falls into a relationship with this
like the principal of the school of his kid who like done like he and then she
and he's like oh well I think I love her and he goes through the whole movie the
whole movie they go through so they have to go back to the North Pole the movie
is over in ten minutes and they go back to the North Pole with the woman who's
like the unlikely love interest and they defeat robot Nazi Santa Claus who has
decided that all children are naughty so they should all get coal so he has an
army of toy soldiers a fucking amazing idea that should have been the whole
point of the movie but like like but it's like instead it's like oh he's crazy
he's a crazy Santa Claus but no he's not crazy he's following the rules of being
Santa he should be like what is naughtiness like they're so close to a
fucking profound thing where it's like what the fuck man like fucking let's do
this like the whole world should be the North Pole like that should have been the
thing but they they thought the whole movies about like a pulling back from
chances to awake people he he he he comes back thinking thank you Stephen
Conrad for your patience he comes back while I'm sitting here I'm just
repeating in my head the whole movie is about what pulling chances to awaken
people yeah he has to find a woman he has to find a wife and it's not it would
be it would be a charming thing if they said you have to you have to find a
wife and then he was like I have to find a wife and then like would go and like go
like okay I have to find a wife and then his heart wouldn't be in it I need him
miss his claws because the having the institution of marriage be like a
formality and then like the complication could be that he he fell in love and
that's how I can reverse Cinderella you sure are like any any romantic story
ever was like arranged marriage versus that where the heart wants to go but
instead they're just like oh well good oh jeez that's not a lot of time to find
a wife I love the way you're thinking about it so they so the so the so the
last the last five minutes of the movie they come back to the North Pole Nazi
Santa Claus it's like almost oh my god the ticking clock on this you guys oh my
god like if they don't catch this guy in time he is going to gradually deliver
coal to one house at a time it's like if in Dr. No like James Bond saying I got
to get this bomb it's gonna it's gonna like start telling people that the
world is blowing up let him go how about this like let him go put up but
get build him a second slay let him go deliver cool that's not gonna go over
with anyone also they didn't really follow the old marriage then baby so they
could have done for the second movie they could have gotten a wife and then
there's a hold the limit with a baby the baby claws oh you are you trying to bring
Christ into Christmas because Santa's baby is not Jesus Christ the he fights
Nazi robot Santa Claus in a conveniently circular arc above the North Pole
because it doesn't go anywhere the slay crashes back down where the where the
sleigh left so no sticks he was never gonna go anywhere all you had to do is
get in the sleigh and inconvenience him he was a robot Nazi Santa Claus he was
not going to succeed even if he did like how amazing would that be hey
everyone got coal last night oh so Santa's real fuck it nothing at stake
nothing at stake it just kills a robot that he created so that he could fuck a
woman crashes the sleigh and everyone's like yeah yeah you did it you beat
Nazi Santa Claus he was a robot I can't believe you did it that's so great and
Tim Allen's like he looks exactly like Tim Allen because the whole point of the
movie is that his magic is reversing so now he looks like Tim Allen and he's
like oh oh let's go we're gonna go now let's go do what we do let's go deliver
the presents and the elf goes like the head elf goes like
and Tim Allen goes oh oh oh and he looks at his regular Tim Allen body and he
goes oh and he turns to the female lead of the movie fucking five minutes from
the credits and he goes like I forgot to tell you that you now have a choice I'm
gonna put choice in really big peppermint air quotes you have a choice
between legally binding yourself to fileting me for the rest of your life
in an underground bunker outside of any national jurisdiction and or or or or
hey you have you it's your choice I'll take you back home and Christmas no more
Christmas forever and she's like I've made my decision it's like the movie
just like yay it's incredible I'm not a feminist I look I hate women I I marvel
at this movie you hate women but you want Santa to do the right thing is
what you're saying well no I'm no I want screenwriters to put on a leash if
they're writing for children I don't I like why look here's the thing kids
don't care about marriage that's the thing that they ran into in the movie
like look the guy was already divorced we swallowed that horse pill in the first
movie it just meant that he was single so he could do sex jokes who is like oh
you're naughty you're nice hey your ass is nice and she's like I mean your dream
slayboy what wait anyways but like he's but the kids are like that and then
somebody was like let's make the second movie about finding a wife okay no don't
right it's a it's a kids movie right don't make it about that because then the
rest of it they had to like then they're like oh so the second movie's gonna be
about him slowly turning from Santa Claus into Tim Allen while he tries to
fuck a woman do you think maybe they're just setting up a really majestic third
well I happen to know I know from the billboards of the third one right Martin
short as Jack Frost I'm hoping it's gonna be like a fucking awesome like Star Trek
thing where it's like the first two movies don't even matter I will watch the
third Santa Claus no I'm like really me Cody's like why aren't you home why
aren't we watching the third Santa Claus Jack Frost I mean that's a real
person like what is that who I mean I'll tell you what it is it's a fucking
vitamin B shot into the arm of a dying franchise wait but if he's if he's in a
movie how does that make him a real person well it's just I don't it's like
we're so oh yeah Santa Claus right get it like Santa Claus Mrs. Claus right like
he has a wife get it Jack Frost what the fuck are you talking about what are you
talking about well I'm sure he's Jack Frost he's gonna be like a straw dog for
secular that whole I'm telling you that franchise I'm not I don't like like
honestly it's like oh my god it's so skirting the war on Christmas the pre
Trump like war on Christmas thing where you know yeah it just felt like oh my
god this is what we did we were like liberal screenwriters and like we just
inflated this bubble we're so surprised it popped because every villain in the
franchise is like someone who inexplicably doesn't want Christmas decorations
to go up and it's like it sounds like something you'd see on Facebook but it's
not because the principle that he ends up fucking and imprisoning in his compound
and people she begins as a as a cuck snowflake principle who but here's her
reason for being anti-Christmas she doesn't think that school budgets should
be spent on such frivolities when people should be focusing on academia okay
that's not an actual issue but it's like pushing these buttons of like well
come on can't say Merry Christmas anymore well not because of some crazy
person who thinks that it saves money yeah yeah school budgets are expensive
because the people want things so they jams those buttons and then she ends up
going like yeah no it's fine like I'll fucking I'll fuck you forever like I
met you three days ago and and during the time I knew you you slowly morphed
from Santa Claus to Tim Allen and back
he says something right at the end he marries her on the spot he gets in his
sleigh and and he and she's like see you later and he's like hey he says
something like like get get ready like he's like get fucking ready cuz I do
that I'm gonna be out all there's like a truck driver he's like I'm gonna fucking
make this haul but when I come back you better like I'm gonna take I'm gonna take
your mood as an insult you better you better spend this time putting the
work in of like realizing how much you love me it was like really please let
that be the title of the show you turn your mood into an insult I think there
should be an alternate ending where it's just like him in the backseat of the
sled just kind of checked out looking out the window as he's like going home
you know here's some things that movie franchise never addresses even though
the whole thing invites you to ask questions about how Christmas works like
it all this fun of like what if there's no chimney oh well then it morphs like
they never ever there's nothing about like how do we hit every house on the
planet in six hours there's nothing nothing what is the morphing chimney part
I did in the first movie so bad he's just like I gotta go down the chimney and
then he like he does this like bad like pre Jim Carrey mask actually I wonder if
it's like I don't know what their excuse is I think it's just like they didn't
believe in the movie and like so it's just like it looks like just like a cutout
of Tim Allen like morphing like he's just being key framed like an effect it's
not like a real CG thing it's like it just looks like a 2d magazine cutout
thing like last starfighter like he just goes down the chimney and then and then
and then they make this big deal about how some houses don't have chimneys and
here's how they handle it the houses that don't have chimneys well they have
like little pipes and so he morphs to go down there and then they cut to like
their version of a poor person's house which just has a radiator and the
radiator morphs into a magical doctor who fireplace that apparently travels
with Santa Claus because you know the whole point of the movie is to take
every piece of the Santa legend and make it real as like rich screeners are
going well what do what do poor people do to justify Santa coming there I don't
they must think their radiators turn into fireplaces no their parents tell them
he doesn't come down the fight he comes in the door like a human that's what my
parents told me they're like no he's a dude he comes in the door I was like
Jesus Christ and like it's fine he's not gonna kill you he's gonna give you
presents okay one more one thing okay no oh god it's so late no fuck you okay
we're gonna like like like I don't know how to end and shows do you do you know
how to end shows I know I have to get on a plane in 20 minutes oh god just getting
no I have to get in a car to the airport yeah right car comes at 11 all right
well everybody thanks Stephen Conrad for being his soul and watch Patriot yeah
and watch everything he does and may I may I thank all of you and then also
Dan I wanted to thank you and I got 20 messages from the crew and the cast to
thank you to sharing how you feel about the show with everybody else it means a
lot to me yeah well yeah please extend our gratitude to them I hope I hope you
guys get a third season thank you Brandon think I don't know how to end the
show I don't know the show ladies and gentlemen that's been Harmontown
Merry Christmas to all of you we were so happy to have you this year thank you
for 2018 thank you to everyone who showed up to the downtown Dynasty Theater the
entire year was our first year here we're so ecstatic to be in our new home we
love you Jeff Davis shout out to church Spencer Crittenden, Steve Levy, Sarah Hill, Chris Soporov,
who am I forgetting, Zach McEever, I've been Brandon Johnson we will see you next year
Muffa Buckles!
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show!